Domain	Element ID	Element Name	Description
Abilities	1.A.1.a.1	Oral Comprehension	The ability to listen to and understand information and ideas presented through spoken words and sentences.
Abilities	1.A.1.a.2	Written Comprehension	The ability to read and understand information and ideas presented in writing.
Abilities	1.A.1.a.3	Oral Expression	The ability to communicate information and ideas in speaking so others will understand.
Abilities	1.A.1.a.4	Written Expression	The ability to communicate information and ideas in writing so others will understand.
Abilities	1.A.1.b.1	Fluency of Ideas	"The ability to come up with a number of ideas about a topic (the number of ideas is important, not their quality, correctness, or creativity)."
Abilities	1.A.1.b.2	Originality	"The ability to come up with unusual or clever ideas about a given topic or situation, or to develop creative ways to solve a problem."
Abilities	1.A.1.b.3	Problem Sensitivity	"The ability to tell when something is wrong or is likely to go wrong. It does not involve solving the problem, only recognizing there is a problem."
Abilities	1.A.1.b.4	Deductive Reasoning	The ability to apply general rules to specific problems to produce answers that make sense.
Abilities	1.A.1.b.5	Inductive Reasoning	The ability to combine pieces of information to form general rules or conclusions (includes finding a relationship among seemingly unrelated events).
Abilities	1.A.1.b.6	Information Ordering	"The ability to arrange things or actions in a certain order or pattern according to a specific rule or set of rules (e.g., patterns of numbers, letters, words, pictures, mathematical operations)."
Abilities	1.A.1.b.7	Category Flexibility	The ability to generate or use different sets of rules for combining or grouping things in different ways.
Abilities	1.A.1.c.1	Mathematical Reasoning	The ability to choose the right mathematical methods or formulas to solve a problem.
Abilities	1.A.1.c.2	Number Facility	"The ability to add, subtract, multiply, or divide quickly and correctly."
Abilities	1.A.1.d.1	Memorization	"The ability to remember information such as words, numbers, pictures, and procedures."
Abilities	1.A.1.e.1	Speed of Closure	"The ability to quickly make sense of, combine, and organize information into meaningful patterns."
Abilities	1.A.1.e.2	Flexibility of Closure	"The ability to identify or detect a known pattern (a figure, object, word, or sound) that is hidden in other distracting material."
Abilities	1.A.1.e.3	Perceptual Speed	"The ability to quickly and accurately compare similarities and differences among sets of letters, numbers, objects, pictures, or patterns. The things to be compared may be presented at the same time or one after the other. This ability also includes comparing a presented object with a remembered object."
Abilities	1.A.1.f.1	Spatial Orientation	The ability to know your location in relation to the environment or to know where other objects are in relation to you.
Abilities	1.A.1.f.2	Visualization	The ability to imagine how something will look after it is moved around or when its parts are moved or rearranged.
Abilities	1.A.1.g.1	Selective Attention	The ability to concentrate on a task over a period of time without being distracted.
Abilities	1.A.1.g.2	Time Sharing	"The ability to shift back and forth between two or more activities or sources of information (such as speech, sounds, touch, or other sources)."
Abilities	1.A.2.a.1	Arm-Hand Steadiness	The ability to keep your hand and arm steady while moving your arm or while holding your arm and hand in one position.
Abilities	1.A.2.a.2	Manual Dexterity	"The ability to quickly move your hand, your hand together with your arm, or your two hands to grasp, manipulate, or assemble objects."
Abilities	1.A.2.a.3	Finger Dexterity	"The ability to make precisely coordinated movements of the fingers of one or both hands to grasp, manipulate, or assemble very small objects."
Abilities	1.A.2.b.1	Control Precision	The ability to quickly and repeatedly adjust the controls of a machine or a vehicle to exact positions.
Abilities	1.A.2.b.2	Multilimb Coordination	"The ability to coordinate two or more limbs (for example, two arms, two legs, or one leg and one arm) while sitting, standing, or lying down. It does not involve performing the activities while the whole body is in motion."
Abilities	1.A.2.b.3	Response Orientation	"The ability to choose quickly between two or more movements in response to two or more different signals (lights, sounds, pictures). It includes the speed with which the correct response is started with the hand, foot, or other body part."
Abilities	1.A.2.b.4	Rate Control	The ability to time your movements or the movement of a piece of equipment in anticipation of changes in the speed and/or direction of a moving object or scene.
Abilities	1.A.2.c.1	Reaction Time	"The ability to quickly respond (with the hand, finger, or foot) to a signal (sound, light, picture) when it appears."
Abilities	1.A.2.c.2	Wrist-Finger Speed	"The ability to make fast, simple, repeated movements of the fingers, hands, and wrists."
Abilities	1.A.2.c.3	Speed of Limb Movement	The ability to quickly move the arms and legs.
Abilities	1.A.3.a.1	Static Strength	"The ability to exert maximum muscle force to lift, push, pull, or carry objects."
Abilities	1.A.3.a.2	Explosive Strength	"The ability to use short bursts of muscle force to propel oneself (as in jumping or sprinting), or to throw an object."
Abilities	1.A.3.a.3	Dynamic Strength	The ability to exert muscle force repeatedly or continuously over time. This involves muscular endurance and resistance to muscle fatigue.
Abilities	1.A.3.a.4	Trunk Strength	The ability to use your abdominal and lower back muscles to support part of the body repeatedly or continuously over time without 'giving out' or fatiguing.
Abilities	1.A.3.b.1	Stamina	The ability to exert yourself physically over long periods of time without getting winded or out of breath.
Abilities	1.A.3.c.1	Extent Flexibility	"The ability to bend, stretch, twist, or reach with your body, arms, and/or legs."
Abilities	1.A.3.c.2	Dynamic Flexibility	"The ability to quickly and repeatedly bend, stretch, twist, or reach out with your body, arms, and/or legs."
Abilities	1.A.3.c.3	Gross Body Coordination	"The ability to coordinate the movement of your arms, legs, and torso together when the whole body is in motion."
Abilities	1.A.3.c.4	Gross Body Equilibrium	The ability to keep or regain your body balance or stay upright when in an unstable position.
Abilities	1.A.4.a.1	Near Vision	The ability to see details at close range (within a few feet of the observer).
Abilities	1.A.4.a.2	Far Vision	The ability to see details at a distance.
Abilities	1.A.4.a.3	Visual Color Discrimination	"The ability to match or detect differences between colors, including shades of color and brightness."
Abilities	1.A.4.a.4	Night Vision	The ability to see under low light conditions.
Abilities	1.A.4.a.5	Peripheral Vision	The ability to see objects or movement of objects to one's side when the eyes are looking ahead.
Abilities	1.A.4.a.6	Depth Perception	"The ability to judge which of several objects is closer or farther away from you, or to judge the distance between you and an object."
Abilities	1.A.4.a.7	Glare Sensitivity	The ability to see objects in the presence of glare or bright lighting.
Abilities	1.A.4.b.1	Hearing Sensitivity	The ability to detect or tell the differences between sounds that vary in pitch and loudness.
Abilities	1.A.4.b.2	Auditory Attention	The ability to focus on a single source of sound in the presence of other distracting sounds.
Abilities	1.A.4.b.3	Sound Localization	The ability to tell the direction from which a sound originated.
Abilities	1.A.4.b.4	Speech Recognition	The ability to identify and understand the speech of another person.
Abilities	1.A.4.b.5	Speech Clarity	The ability to speak clearly so others can understand you.
Work activities	4.A.1.a.1	Getting Information	"Observing, receiving, and otherwise obtaining information from all relevant sources."
Work activities	4.A.1.a.2	"Monitor Processes, Materials, or Surroundings"	"Monitoring and reviewing information from materials, events, or the environment, to detect or assess problems."
Work activities	4.A.1.b.1	"Identifying Objects, Actions, and Events"	"Identifying information by categorizing, estimating, recognizing differences or similarities, and detecting changes in circumstances or events."
Work activities	4.A.1.b.2	"Inspecting Equipment, Structures, or Material"	"Inspecting equipment, structures, or materials to identify the cause of errors or other problems or defects."
Work activities	4.A.1.b.3	"Estimating the Quantifiable Characteristics of Products, Events, or Information"	"Estimating sizes, distances, and quantities; or determining time, costs, resources, or materials needed to perform a work activity."
Work activities	4.A.2.a.1	"Judging the Qualities of Things, Services, or People"	"Assessing the value, importance, or quality of things or people."
Work activities	4.A.2.a.2	Processing Information	"Compiling, coding, categorizing, calculating, tabulating, auditing, or verifying information or data."
Work activities	4.A.2.a.3	Evaluating Information to Determine Compliance with Standards	"Using relevant information and individual judgment to determine whether events or processes comply with laws, regulations, or standards."
Work activities	4.A.2.a.4	Analyzing Data or Information	"Identifying the underlying principles, reasons, or facts of information by breaking down information or data into separate parts."
Work activities	4.A.2.b.1	Making Decisions and Solving Problems	Analyzing information and evaluating results to choose the best solution and solve problems.
Work activities	4.A.2.b.2	Thinking Creatively	"Developing, designing, or creating new applications, ideas, relationships, systems, or products, including artistic contributions."
Work activities	4.A.2.b.3	Updating and Using Relevant Knowledge	Keeping up-to-date technically and applying new knowledge to your job.
Work activities	4.A.2.b.4	Developing Objectives and Strategies	Establishing long-range objectives and specifying the strategies and actions to achieve them.
Work activities	4.A.2.b.5	Scheduling Work and Activities	"Scheduling events, programs, and activities, as well as the work of others."
Work activities	4.A.2.b.6	"Organizing, Planning, and Prioritizing Work"	"Developing specific goals and plans to prioritize, organize, and accomplish your work."
Work activities	4.A.3.a.1	Performing General Physical Activities	"Performing physical activities that require considerable use of your arms and legs and moving your whole body, such as climbing, lifting, balancing, walking, stooping, and handling of materials."
Work activities	4.A.3.a.2	Handling and Moving Objects	"Using hands and arms in handling, installing, positioning, and moving materials, and manipulating things."
Work activities	4.A.3.a.3	Controlling Machines and Processes	Using either control mechanisms or direct physical activity to operate machines or processes (not including computers or vehicles).
Work activities	4.A.3.a.4	"Operating Vehicles, Mechanized Devices, or Equipment"	"Running, maneuvering, navigating, or driving vehicles or mechanized equipment, such as forklifts, passenger vehicles, aircraft, or water craft."
Work activities	4.A.3.b.1	Interacting With Computers	"Using computers and computer systems (including hardware and software) to program, write software, set up functions, enter data, or process information."
Work activities	4.A.3.b.2	"Drafting, Laying Out, and Specifying Technical Devices, Parts, and Equipment"	"Providing documentation, detailed instructions, drawings, or specifications to tell others about how devices, parts, equipment, or structures are to be fabricated, constructed, assembled, modified, maintained, or used."
Work activities	4.A.3.b.4	Repairing and Maintaining Mechanical Equipment	"Servicing, repairing, adjusting, and testing machines, devices, moving parts, and equipment that operate primarily on the basis of mechanical (not electronic) principles."
Work activities	4.A.3.b.5	Repairing and Maintaining Electronic Equipment	"Servicing, repairing, calibrating, regulating, fine-tuning, or testing machines, devices, and equipment that operate primarily on the basis of electrical or electronic (not mechanical) principles."
Work activities	4.A.3.b.6	Documenting/Recording Information	"Entering, transcribing, recording, storing, or maintaining information in written or electronic/magnetic form."
Work activities	4.A.4.a.1	Interpreting the Meaning of Information for Others	Translating or explaining what information means and how it can be used.
Work activities	4.A.4.a.2	"Communicating with Supervisors, Peers, or Subordinates"	"Providing information to supervisors, co-workers, and subordinates by telephone, in written form, e-mail, or in person."
Work activities	4.A.4.a.3	Communicating with Persons Outside Organization	"Communicating with people outside the organization, representing the organization to customers, the public, government, and other external sources. This information can be exchanged in person, in writing, or by telephone or e-mail."
Work activities	4.A.4.a.4	Establishing and Maintaining Interpersonal Relationships	"Developing constructive and cooperative working relationships with others, and maintaining them over time."
Work activities	4.A.4.a.5	Assisting and Caring for Others	"Providing personal assistance, medical attention, emotional support, or other personal care to others such as coworkers, customers, or patients."
Work activities	4.A.4.a.6	Selling or Influencing Others	Convincing others to buy merchandise/goods or to otherwise change their minds or actions.
Work activities	4.A.4.a.7	Resolving Conflicts and Negotiating with Others	"Handling complaints, settling disputes, and resolving grievances and conflicts, or otherwise negotiating with others."
Work activities	4.A.4.a.8	Performing for or Working Directly with the Public	"Performing for people or dealing directly with the public. This includes serving customers in restaurants and stores, and receiving clients or guests."
Work activities	4.A.4.b.1	Coordinating the Work and Activities of Others	Getting members of a group to work together to accomplish tasks.
Work activities	4.A.4.b.2	Developing and Building Teams	"Encouraging and building mutual trust, respect, and cooperation among team members."
Work activities	4.A.4.b.3	Training and Teaching Others	"Identifying the educational needs of others, developing formal educational or training programs or classes, and teaching or instructing others."
Work activities	4.A.4.b.4	"Guiding, Directing, and Motivating Subordinates"	"Providing guidance and direction to subordinates, including setting performance standards and monitoring performance."
Work activities	4.A.4.b.5	Coaching and Developing Others	"Identifying the developmental needs of others and coaching, mentoring, or otherwise helping others to improve their knowledge or skills."
Work activities	4.A.4.b.6	Provide Consultation and Advice to Others	"Providing guidance and expert advice to management or other groups on technical, systems-, or process-related topics."
Work activities	4.A.4.c.1	Performing Administrative Activities	Performing day-to-day administrative tasks such as maintaining information files and processing paperwork.
Work activities	4.A.4.c.2	Staffing Organizational Units	"Recruiting, interviewing, selecting, hiring, and promoting employees in an organization."
Work activities	4.A.4.c.3	Monitoring and Controlling Resources	Monitoring and controlling resources and overseeing the spending of money.
Work context	4.C.1.a.2.c	Public Speaking	How often do you have to perform public speaking in this job?
Work context	4.C.1.a.2.f	Telephone	How often do you have telephone conversations in this job?
Work context	4.C.1.a.2.h	Electronic Mail	How often do you use electronic mail in this job?
Work context	4.C.1.a.2.j	Letters and Memos	How often does the job require written letters and memos?
Work context	4.C.1.a.2.l	Face-to-Face Discussions	How often do you have to have face-to-face discussions with individuals or teams in this job?
Work context	4.C.1.a.4	Contact With Others	"How much does this job require the worker to be in contact with others (face-to-face, by telephone, or otherwise) in order to perform it?"
Work context	4.C.1.b.1.e	Work With Work Group or Team	How important is it to work with others in a group or team in this job?
Work context	4.C.1.b.1.f	Deal With External Customers	How important is it to work with external customers or the public in this job?
Work context	4.C.1.b.1.g	Coordinate or Lead Others	How important is it to coordinate or lead others in accomplishing work activities in this job?
Work context	4.C.1.c.1	Responsible for Others' Health and Safety	How much responsibility is there for the health and safety of others in this job?
Work context	4.C.1.c.2	Responsibility for Outcomes and Results	How responsible is the worker for work outcomes and results of other workers?
Work context	4.C.1.d.1	Frequency of Conflict Situations	How often are there conflict situations the employee has to face in this job?
Work context	4.C.1.d.2	Deal With Unpleasant or Angry People	"How frequently does the worker have to deal with unpleasant, angry, or discourteous individuals as part of the job requirements?"
Work context	4.C.1.d.3	Deal With Physically Aggressive People	How frequently does this job require the worker to deal with physical aggression of violent individuals?
Work context	4.C.2.a.1.a	"Indoors, Environmentally Controlled"	How often does this job require working indoors in environmentally controlled conditions?
Work context	4.C.2.a.1.b	"Indoors, Not Environmentally Controlled"	"How often does this job require working indoors in non-controlled environmental conditions (e.g., warehouse without heat)?"
Work context	4.C.2.a.1.c	"Outdoors, Exposed to Weather"	"How often does this job require working outdoors, exposed to all weather conditions?"
Work context	4.C.2.a.1.d	"Outdoors, Under Cover"	"How often does this job require working outdoors, under cover (e.g., structure with roof but no walls)?"
Work context	4.C.2.a.1.e	In an Open Vehicle or Equipment	"How often does this job require working in an open vehicle or equipment (e.g., tractor)?"
Work context	4.C.2.a.1.f	In an Enclosed Vehicle or Equipment	"How often does this job require working in a closed vehicle or equipment (e.g., car)?"
Work context	4.C.2.a.3	Physical Proximity	To what extent does this job require the worker to perform job tasks in close physical proximity to other people?
Work context	4.C.2.b.1.a	"Sounds, Noise Levels Are Distracting or Uncomfortable"	How often does this job require working exposed to sounds and noise levels that are distracting or uncomfortable?
Work context	4.C.2.b.1.b	Very Hot or Cold Temperatures	How often does this job require working in very hot (above 90 F degrees) or very cold (below 32 F degrees) temperatures?
Work context	4.C.2.b.1.c	Extremely Bright or Inadequate Lighting	How often does this job require working in extremely bright or inadequate lighting conditions?
Work context	4.C.2.b.1.d	Exposed to Contaminants	"How often does this job require working exposed to contaminants (such as pollutants, gases, dust or odors)?"
Work context	4.C.2.b.1.e	"Cramped Work Space, Awkward Positions"	How often does this job require working in cramped work spaces that requires getting into awkward positions?
Work context	4.C.2.b.1.f	Exposed to Whole Body Vibration	"How often does this job require exposure to whole body vibration (e.g., operate a jackhammer)?"
Work context	4.C.2.c.1.a	Exposed to Radiation	How often does this job require exposure to radiation?
Work context	4.C.2.c.1.b	Exposed to Disease or Infections	How often does this job require exposure to disease/infections?
Work context	4.C.2.c.1.c	Exposed to High Places	How often does this job require exposure to high places?
Work context	4.C.2.c.1.d	Exposed to Hazardous Conditions	How often does this job require exposure to hazardous conditions?
Work context	4.C.2.c.1.e	Exposed to Hazardous Equipment	How often does this job require exposure to hazardous equipment?
Work context	4.C.2.c.1.f	"Exposed to Minor Burns, Cuts, Bites, or Stings"	"How often does this job require exposure to minor burns, cuts, bites, or stings?"
Work context	4.C.2.d.1.a	Spend Time Sitting	How much does this job require sitting?
Work context	4.C.2.d.1.b	Spend Time Standing	How much does this job require standing?
Work context	4.C.2.d.1.c	"Spend Time Climbing Ladders, Scaffolds, or Poles"	"How much does this job require climbing ladders, scaffolds, or poles?"
Work context	4.C.2.d.1.d	Spend Time Walking and Running	How much does this job require walking and running?
Work context	4.C.2.d.1.e	"Spend Time Kneeling, Crouching, Stooping, or Crawling"	"How much does this job require kneeling, crouching, stooping or crawling?"
Work context	4.C.2.d.1.f	Spend Time Keeping or Regaining Balance	How much does this job require keeping or regaining your balance?
Work context	4.C.2.d.1.g	"Spend Time Using Your Hands to Handle, Control, or Feel Objects, Tools, or Controls"	"How much does this job require using your hands to handle, control, or feel objects, tools or controls?"
Work context	4.C.2.d.1.h	Spend Time Bending or Twisting the Body	How much does this job require bending or twisting your body?
Work context	4.C.2.d.1.i	Spend Time Making Repetitive Motions	How much does this job require making repetitive motions?
Work context	4.C.2.e.1.d	"Wear Common Protective or Safety Equipment such as Safety Shoes, Glasses, Gloves, Hearing Protection, Hard Hats, or Life Jackets"	"How much does this job require wearing common protective or safety equipment such as safety shoes, glasses, gloves, hard hats or life jackets?"
Work context	4.C.2.e.1.e	"Wear Specialized Protective or Safety Equipment such as Breathing Apparatus, Safety Harness, Full Protection Suits, or Radiation Protection"	"How much does this job require wearing specialized protective or safety equipment such as breathing apparatus, safety harness, full protection suits, or radiation protection?"
Work context	4.C.3.a.1	Consequence of Error	How serious would the result usually be if the worker made a mistake that was not readily correctable?
Work context	4.C.3.a.2.a	Impact of Decisions on Co-workers or Company Results	"How do the decisions an employee makes impact the results of co-workers, clients or the company?"
Work context	4.C.3.a.2.b	Frequency of Decision Making	"How frequently is the worker required to make decisions that affect other people, the financial resources, and/or the image and reputation of the organization?"
Work context	4.C.3.a.4	Freedom to Make Decisions	"How much decision making freedom, without supervision, does the job offer?"
Work context	4.C.3.b.2	Degree of Automation	How automated is the job?
Work context	4.C.3.b.4	Importance of Being Exact or Accurate	How important is being very exact or highly accurate in performing this job?
Work context	4.C.3.b.7	Importance of Repeating Same Tasks	"How important is repeating the same physical activities (e.g., key entry) or mental activities (e.g., checking entries in a ledger) over and over, without stopping, to performing this job?"
Work context	4.C.3.b.8	Structured versus Unstructured Work	"To what extent is this job structured for the worker, rather than allowing the worker to determine tasks, priorities, and goals?"
Work context	4.C.3.c.1	Level of Competition	To what extent does this job require the worker to compete or to be aware of competitive pressures?
Work context	4.C.3.d.1	Time Pressure	How often does this job require the worker to meet strict deadlines?
Work context	4.C.3.d.3	Pace Determined by Speed of Equipment	How important is it to this job that the pace is determined by the speed of equipment or machinery? (This does not refer to keeping busy at all times on this job.)
Work context	4.C.3.d.4	Work Schedules	How regular are the work schedules for this job?
Work context	4.C.3.d.8	Duration of Typical Work Week	Number of hours typically worked in one week.
Knowledge	2.C.1.a	Administration and Management	"Knowledge of business and management principles involved in strategic planning, resource allocation, human resources modeling, leadership technique, production methods, and coordination of people and resources."
Knowledge	2.C.1.b	Clerical	"Knowledge of administrative and clerical procedures and systems such as word processing, managing files and records, stenography and transcription, designing forms, and other office procedures and terminology."
Knowledge	2.C.1.c	Economics and Accounting	"Knowledge of economic and accounting principles and practices, the financial markets, banking and the analysis and reporting of financial data."
Knowledge	2.C.1.d	Sales and Marketing	"Knowledge of principles and methods for showing, promoting, and selling products or services. This includes marketing strategy and tactics, product demonstration, sales techniques, and sales control systems."
Knowledge	2.C.1.e	Customer and Personal Service	"Knowledge of principles and processes for providing customer and personal services. This includes customer needs assessment, meeting quality standards for services, and evaluation of customer satisfaction."
Knowledge	2.C.1.f	Personnel and Human Resources	"Knowledge of principles and procedures for personnel recruitment, selection, training, compensation and benefits, labor relations and negotiation, and personnel information systems."
Knowledge	2.C.2.a	Production and Processing	"Knowledge of raw materials, production processes, quality control, costs, and other techniques for maximizing the effective manufacture and distribution of goods."
Knowledge	2.C.2.b	Food Production	"Knowledge of techniques and equipment for planting, growing, and harvesting food products (both plant and animal) for consumption, including storage/handling techniques."
Knowledge	2.C.3.a	Computers and Electronics	"Knowledge of circuit boards, processors, chips, electronic equipment, and computer hardware and software, including applications and programming."
Knowledge	2.C.3.b	Engineering and Technology	"Knowledge of the practical application of engineering science and technology. This includes applying principles, techniques, procedures, and equipment to the design and production of various goods and services."
Knowledge	2.C.3.c	Design	"Knowledge of design techniques, tools, and principles involved in production of precision technical plans, blueprints, drawings, and models."
Knowledge	2.C.3.d	Building and Construction	"Knowledge of materials, methods, and the tools involved in the construction or repair of houses, buildings, or other structures such as highways and roads."
Knowledge	2.C.3.e	Mechanical	"Knowledge of machines and tools, including their designs, uses, repair, and maintenance."
Knowledge	2.C.4.a	Mathematics	"Knowledge of arithmetic, algebra, geometry, calculus, statistics, and their applications."
Knowledge	2.C.4.b	Physics	"Knowledge and prediction of physical principles, laws, their interrelationships, and applications to understanding fluid, material, and atmospheric dynamics, and mechanical, electrical, atomic and sub- atomic structures and processes."
Knowledge	2.C.4.c	Chemistry	"Knowledge of the chemical composition, structure, and properties of substances and of the chemical processes and transformations that they undergo. This includes uses of chemicals and their interactions, danger signs, production techniques, and disposal methods."
Knowledge	2.C.4.d	Biology	"Knowledge of plant and animal organisms, their tissues, cells, functions, interdependencies, and interactions with each other and the environment."
Knowledge	2.C.4.e	Psychology	"Knowledge of human behavior and performance; individual differences in ability, personality, and interests; learning and motivation; psychological research methods; and the assessment and treatment of behavioral and affective disorders."
Knowledge	2.C.4.f	Sociology and Anthropology	"Knowledge of group behavior and dynamics, societal trends and influences, human migrations, ethnicity, cultures and their history and origins."
Knowledge	2.C.4.g	Geography	"Knowledge of principles and methods for describing the features of land, sea, and air masses, including their physical characteristics, locations, interrelationships, and distribution of plant, animal, and human life."
Knowledge	2.C.5.a	Medicine and Dentistry	"Knowledge of the information and techniques needed to diagnose and treat human injuries, diseases, and deformities. This includes symptoms, treatment alternatives, drug properties and interactions, and preventive health-care measures."
Knowledge	2.C.5.b	Therapy and Counseling	"Knowledge of principles, methods, and procedures for diagnosis, treatment, and rehabilitation of physical and mental dysfunctions, and for career counseling and guidance."
Knowledge	2.C.7.a	English Language	"Knowledge of the structure and content of the English language including the meaning and spelling of words, rules of composition, and grammar."
Knowledge	2.C.7.b	Foreign Language	"Knowledge of the structure and content of a foreign (non-English) language including the meaning and spelling of words, rules of composition and grammar, and pronunciation."
Knowledge	2.C.7.c	Fine Arts	"Knowledge of the theory and techniques required to compose, produce, and perform works of music, dance, visual arts, drama, and sculpture."
Knowledge	2.C.7.d	History and Archeology	"Knowledge of historical events and their causes, indicators, and effects on civilizations and cultures."
Knowledge	2.C.7.e	Philosophy and Theology	"Knowledge of different philosophical systems and religions. This includes their basic principles, values, ethics, ways of thinking, customs, practices, and their impact on human culture."
Knowledge	2.C.8.a	Public Safety and Security	"Knowledge of relevant equipment, policies, procedures, and strategies to promote effective local, state, or national security operations for the protection of people, data, property, and institutions."
Knowledge	2.C.8.b	Law and Government	"Knowledge of laws, legal codes, court procedures, precedents, government regulations, executive orders, agency rules, and the democratic political process."
Knowledge	2.C.9.a	Telecommunications	"Knowledge of transmission, broadcasting, switching, control, and operation of telecommunications systems."
Knowledge	2.C.9.b	Communications and Media	"Knowledge of media production, communication, and dissemination techniques and methods. This includes alternative ways to inform and entertain via written, oral, and visual media."
Knowledge	2.C.10	Transportation	"Knowledge of principles and methods for moving people or goods by air, rail, sea, or road, including the relative costs and benefits."
Skills	2.A.1.a	Reading Comprehension	Understanding written sentences and paragraphs in work related documents.
Skills	2.A.1.b	Active Listening	"Giving full attention to what other people are saying, taking time to understand the points being made, asking questions as appropriate, and not interrupting at inappropriate times."
Skills	2.A.1.c	Writing	Communicating effectively in writing as appropriate for the needs of the audience.
Skills	2.A.1.d	Speaking	Talking to others to convey information effectively.
Skills	2.A.1.e	Mathematics	Using mathematics to solve problems.
Skills	2.A.1.f	Science	Using scientific rules and methods to solve problems.
Skills	2.A.2.a	Critical Thinking	"Using logic and reasoning to identify the strengths and weaknesses of alternative solutions, conclusions or approaches to problems."
Skills	2.A.2.b	Active Learning	Understanding the implications of new information for both current and future problem-solving and decision-making.
Skills	2.A.2.c	Learning Strategies	Selecting and using training/instructional methods and procedures appropriate for the situation when learning or teaching new things.
Skills	2.A.2.d	Monitoring	"Monitoring/Assessing performance of yourself, other individuals, or organizations to make improvements or take corrective action."
Skills	2.B.1.a	Social Perceptiveness	Being aware of others' reactions and understanding why they react as they do.
Skills	2.B.1.b	Coordination	Adjusting actions in relation to others' actions.
Skills	2.B.1.c	Persuasion	Persuading others to change their minds or behavior.
Skills	2.B.1.d	Negotiation	Bringing others together and trying to reconcile differences.
Skills	2.B.1.e	Instructing	Teaching others how to do something.
Skills	2.B.1.f	Service Orientation	Actively looking for ways to help people.
Skills	2.B.2.i	Complex Problem Solving	Identifying complex problems and reviewing related information to develop and evaluate options and implement solutions.
Skills	2.B.3.a	Operations Analysis	Analyzing needs and product requirements to create a design.
Skills	2.B.3.b	Technology Design	Generating or adapting equipment and technology to serve user needs.
Skills	2.B.3.c	Equipment Selection	Determining the kind of tools and equipment needed to do a job.
Skills	2.B.3.d	Installation	"Installing equipment, machines, wiring, or programs to meet specifications."
Skills	2.B.3.e	Programming	Writing computer programs for various purposes.
Skills	2.B.3.g	Operation Monitoring	"Watching gauges, dials, or other indicators to make sure a machine is working properly."
Skills	2.B.3.h	Operation and Control	Controlling operations of equipment or systems.
Skills	2.B.3.j	Equipment Maintenance	Performing routine maintenance on equipment and determining when and what kind of maintenance is needed.
Skills	2.B.3.k	Troubleshooting	Determining causes of operating errors and deciding what to do about it.
Skills	2.B.3.l	Repairing	Repairing machines or systems using the needed tools.
Skills	2.B.3.m	Quality Control Analysis	"Conducting tests and inspections of products, services, or processes to evaluate quality or performance."
Skills	2.B.4.e	Judgment and Decision Making	Considering the relative costs and benefits of potential actions to choose the most appropriate one.
Skills	2.B.4.g	Systems Analysis	"Determining how a system should work and how changes in conditions, operations, and the environment will affect outcomes."
Skills	2.B.4.h	Systems Evaluation	"Identifying measures or indicators of system performance and the actions needed to improve or correct performance, relative to the goals of the system."
Skills	2.B.5.a	Time Management	Managing one's own time and the time of others.
Skills	2.B.5.b	Management of Financial Resources	"Determining how money will be spent to get the work done, and accounting for these expenditures."
Skills	2.B.5.c	Management of Material Resources	"Obtaining and seeing to the appropriate use of equipment, facilities, and materials needed to do certain work."
Skills	2.B.5.d	Management of Personnel Resources	"Motivating, developing, and directing people as they work, identifying the best people for the job."
Work styles	1.C.1.a	Achievement/Effort	Job requires establishing and maintaining personally challenging achievement goals and exerting effort toward mastering tasks.
Work styles	1.C.1.b	Persistence	Job requires persistence in the face of obstacles.
Work styles	1.C.1.c	Initiative	Job requires a willingness to take on responsibilities and challenges.
Work styles	1.C.2.b	Leadership	"Job requires a willingness to lead, take charge, and offer opinions and direction."
Work styles	1.C.3.a	Cooperation	"Job requires being pleasant with others on the job and displaying a good-natured, cooperative attitude."
Work styles	1.C.3.b	Concern for Others	Job requires being sensitive to others' needs and feelings and being understanding and helpful on the job.
Work styles	1.C.3.c	Social Orientation	"Job requires preferring to work with others rather than alone, and being personally connected with others on the job."
Work styles	1.C.4.a	Self Control	"Job requires maintaining composure, keeping emotions in check, controlling anger, and avoiding aggressive behavior, even in very difficult situations."
Work styles	1.C.4.b	Stress Tolerance	Job requires accepting criticism and dealing calmly and effectively with high stress situations.
Work styles	1.C.4.c	Adaptability/Flexibility	Job requires being open to change (positive or negative) and to considerable variety in the workplace.
Work styles	1.C.5.a	Dependability	"Job requires being reliable, responsible, and dependable, and fulfilling obligations."
Work styles	1.C.5.b	Attention to Detail	Job requires being careful about detail and thorough in completing work tasks.
Work styles	1.C.5.c	Integrity	Job requires being honest and ethical.
Work styles	1.C.6	Independence	"Job requires developing one's own ways of doing things, guiding oneself with little or no supervision, and depending on oneself to get things done."
Work styles	1.C.7.a	Innovation	Job requires creativity and alternative thinking to develop new ideas for and answers to work-related problems.
Work styles	1.C.7.b	Analytical Thinking	Job requires analyzing information and using logic to address work-related issues and problems.
